all right we're almost live
and we're live welcome to the wan show
ladies and gentlemen now i know we
always say we've got a great show for
you guys today but this is one of those
times when it's actually true because
sometimes we just say that even though
we know that it's not going to be a
particularly amazing show uh apple just
launched the new iphone se
are they calling it new iphone se or is
it just iphone sc i really wish they
wouldn't do that because sc is like the
implication is second edition or special
edition or something you can't have two
special editions because then neither of
them are special but we're going to get
into that more later what else we got
luke what else is on the docket new it
is just iphone se well i hate it
i'm not saying it's good
um some dude built a nintendo switch
from scratch just straight up and that's
really cool also there's a rumor of quad
core zen 2 cpus quad-core zen2 cpus and
we're going to be talking about my crazy
plan to ghetto air condition my house
for about a quarter of what i was quoted
from a professional
wow yes a quarter the amount so you know
when i get when i get a deal that is one
quarter the cost now you got my
attention ladies and gentlemen was this
whole person water cooling
uh no no there's definitely like actual
air conditioning involved it's not just
water cooling um but it's gonna be it's
gonna be grand it's gonna be grand and
i'm really excited about it so let's go
ahead and roll that intro
[Music]
sometimes i just like have no idea what
people are talking about you know
like linus that beard is so mustache
what are you talking about what does
that mean
i have no idea how can a beard be so
mustache
it's like how can this show be brought
to you by savage jerky manscape and pia
you know what i'm saying hey we did it
you know what i'm saying
oh no we didn't we said what i'm talking
about no no i didn't buy it i just
didn't bother i couldn't be arsed uh i'm
talking every week okay that's right
we're getting a little bit better every
week i mean look at his glorious face
this week ladies and gentlemen yeah how
much better does his camera look now
that he found the power cable
[Laughter]
you can't run a camera without the power
cable yeah we've learned it's a helpful
it's a very helpful piece of the kit
that's a free tech tip it's a free tech
tip well you actually
it's kind of a fake tech tip because you
can actually totally run the uh the
camera without the power cable as long
as you have the battery
yeah
yeah all right so unless you also don't
have a way to charge the battery all
right so why don't we jump right into
our first topic of the day what was our
headline ah yes apple launches the new
iphone se
for 399
us dollars so i guess we're gonna end up
calling this the iphone se 2020
because that's kind of what we've
resorted to for deciphering apple's
horrible naming scheme you know what
just to kind of stick it to them i
really wish consumers and the media
would all band together and start using
like the
the
the really horrible part numbers that
actually do exist for these products
just to be like look unless you start
calling things something that makes any
sense this is what we're going to do and
the infuriating thing about it is that
apple clearly understands that products
need names that allow consumers to
easily differentiate one from the other
that's why it's called
iphone 10
iphone 11 and yet
other departments seem to completely not
get the memo like the iphone department
and that and that's inexplicable because
the other iphone department seems to
have it all sorted out where they're
like oh yeah the iphone se how about
iphone te you know third
edition or i don't know i don't know i
don't know what the answer is that would
even sound cool to me iphone sc2
sc2 it doesn't it doesn't matter just
something so that when people are
talking about the product you know what
they're talking about it's like yeah
i've got a macbook air
that could be any computer
that could be an ancient piece of
garbage or a brand new piece of garbage
like
[Laughter]
it could be anything you know what i'm
talking about like yeah man yeah for
sure in fairness actually we we just
wrapped up uh our review of the new
macbook air it's a lot better
so it's still limited to a 10 watt
cooling solution which means that that
quad-core chip in there is not
able to stretch its legs in the way that
competing solutions from
hp and dell r but it's a quad core which
means that you actually like can get
some real multitasking done with it
compared to the last gen one which you
know in 2019 uh was still limited to a
dual core design only so i still would
have liked to see the fan
which is present in the computer
um actually cooling the cpu that's a
weird one okay it's got a fan fan does
not appear to have any direct contact
with the cpu heatsink um so you know
what does it do
i i i we're not we're not i don't know
well it doesn't cool the cpu so
there's that
isn't that like the only thing that
would bottleneck i think it cools the
whole system i think apple just decided
that instead of connecting
a heat pipe or like a vapor chamber
directly from the cpu to the fan and
like have a heat sink there it's more
about just like overall system airflow
so they're making sure that all the
components of the board get cooled now
they could have done that while also
putting
you know heatsink fins next to it and
running a heat pipe to the cpu but they
opted not to do that
so uh that's that's the design decision
that they made and it's still you know
it's still an i it's still a macbook air
feels great you know it's not flexible
or anything like that it's got a lot of
things going for it yeah um just you
know could use better cooling but at
least it's got a quad core processor now
anyway anyway back to people who didn't
get the memo the iphone se so it's 400
so it's got exactly the same name as the
2016 iphone se and this is pretty cool
it's got the same price and when you
consider that 2016 the last time that
apple saw fit to make a budget iphone
was four years ago uh and a lot more
people were employed it's pretty well
okay that's a fair point but accounting
for inflation this is effectively
cheaper than the original iphone se and
it is a lot more phone for the money so
the specs are actually
similar internally to the iphone 11 so
it's got the same bionic a13 7 nanometer
plus
processor i love that industry trend we
don't have a new manufacturing process
so we're just going to put buses on
things uh the same 64 128 and even 256
gig storage option i am really surprised
to see a 256 gig storage option on the
iphone se um that basically means to me
that
this is less of a replacement for the
original sc and more just an
acknowledgement that there are markets
like india and
america that need cheaper phones um and
still want to have apple as an option
but simply cannot afford a flagship
current gen iphone so this is a way for
them to
basically
make you know
a budget phone
but um you know not cannibalize their
existing flagship ones yeah and just
effectively just put the same the same
hardware that people they know people
want they know people want a lot of
storage just because you only have 400
compared to someone who can you know
afford a proper iphone with a thousand
dollars doesn't mean you don't want to
take a lot of pictures you know it's
even got wireless charging that's
something that i was pretty impressed to
see um stereo audio with loudspeaker
that's really nice to have when you're
watching videos on the go no headphone
jack of course one thing i would like to
throw in is there's a red edition and
the original like the first red edition
iphone that they released was i think
one of the like
best looking phones i had ever seen at
the time oh yeah so it probably looks
great
uh and proceeds go towards the fight
against kova 19. so that's cool that's
pretty cool all right so that all
sounded real great so far for the iphone
sc 2020 edition there are some important
cost cutting measures compared to the
iphone 11 in order to hit that 400 price
point it has an 18 21 milliamp hour
battery
i don't remember the last android phone
that had a sub 2 000 milliamp hour
battery and here's the thing that i
really that just kind of you know
boggles my mind a little bit
um when i look at phone pricing now i
fully understand that when you that when
you look at the bomb cost the bill of
materials cost of a device like a phone
it's really not as simple as just um
well i don't know it should be that plus
you know some reasonable markup let's
say 20
it's not that simple there's a lot of r
d that goes into creating a phone and
there's a lot of um support that goes
into moving a product out into the
channel and training your you know your
sales people and your customer service
people and your technicians and all that
like there's all these costs associated
with bringing a product to market
except for one small problem
a lot of them are kind of fixed costs
so
the you know what
dollar
three dollars
let's say let's be generous let's say
it's five extra dollars to make that
a 2500 milliamp hour battery
um
i get that it's not as simple as making
the phone 405 dollars yeah how about
409.99 i get you want to hit a price
point or whatever
but like personally
i would take
uh you know 2500 like slightly bigger
battery over
a wireless qi charging option
the smaller screen and no face id
sensors will help with the battery a
little bit but nowhere near the gap
that has been created by the lack of
capacity yeah not even close because
you've got to remember too guys like
wireless charging is still
even though i i suspect that apple is
taking a much safer approach to it than
some manufacturers like i think oppo has
40 watt wireless charging at this point
and oneplus just launched a phone with
30 wireless charging that in order to
use it you actually have to use their
wireless charger which has a cooling fan
in it that blows across the back of the
phone like apple's taking a relatively
conservative approach to wireless
charging but the fact that i've got
wireless charging which inherently
creates more heat in the battery and
therefore will make it not last as long
maybe apple has determined through their
billion dollar a month r d budget that
it's not too bad
but
this is a feature that will make your
battery last less long
by some amount
and
in order to have it we now have an
800 milliamp hour battery and that's
absolutely brutal
uh someone in twitch chat and i think a
few other people as well have said that
the
project red iphone uh
will
is raising money to to fight aids i
believe that is
generally correct for product red
launches but if you look on apple's
website it says specifically under it
right next to the project red logo every
iphone sc project red purchased new
contributes directly to the global fund
to combat covet 19.
some other spec differences here three
gigs versus four gigs of ram uh seven
megapixel front camera so it's a little
less than the 12 megapixel unit on the
iphone 11 so there's no 4k video support
on the front and there's no ultra wide
rear camera just a single rear camera
similar to the main camera on the iphone
11 that should still be a pretty darn
decent main camera remember it is still
an iphone um
in a nod so i know a lot of people are
really upset that the iphone se is not
small
people thought the iphone se was apple's
nod to people who don't want gigantic
phones as it turns out it's not it's
apple's nod to people who don't want
whatever current feature they're pushing
and need a little bit more time to
adjust i guess so
you're gonna you're stuck with a big
phone and i say big relatively speaking
like the screen's not that big but the
phone itself is much larger than the old
iphone se
but what you're not stuck with is face
id so if you don't like notches and you
don't like facial recognition for
whatever reason you can go back to using
a front-facing touch sensor so it's got
uh
fingerprint sensor and the more
traditional iphone spot
and no notch um what do you think
i think they're going to sell boatloads
of them i'm the only thing that i look
at and i go yeah i don't know how i
could possibly recommend this to you
know my auntie or whatever else is that
battery the battery now apple has
excellent battery management and it's
possible that that bionic a13 is clocked
lower so we don't necessarily
know that this phone actually performs
the same as an iphone 11
we just know that it has the same
processor so it is possible
that it will be more efficient that it
you know the smaller display will help
but i would have liked to see at least
a 25 like 2400 class 24 2500 2600
milliamp hour battery in this thing
other than that i think it's it's a
fantastic entry level into the iphone
ecosystem because it's priced so low
that if you're in a market that does
carrier subsidized um like payment plan
type of phone deals uh this this is
easily right out of the gate brand new
when it launches this is a zero dollar
phone on a two-year plan basically or
like 100 phone or whatever the case may
be
i think i saw somewhere trade-ins for
229 or something
like if you trade in your phone you can
get this one for for 200 and something
yeah that's that's that's pretty sick
and you guys like the thing is there's a
lot of people
who just it doesn't actually
matter what's out there on the android
side of things they want an iphone and
so apple didn't have to give them a
cheaper option i guess
to be fair while they might not like to
admit it uh i think that's
probably
maybe not just as true but probably
close to just as true on the android
side
no matter what apple has to offer
they're going to stick with android you
should have seen the toxicity in the
comments um
you should have seen the toxicity in the
comments on my fanboy linus yes yeah
exactly on my s20 ultra video it's still
covered in those comments like it's just
pathetic how much of an apple fanboy
this is no it's pathetic how much you
actually
how desperately you want to remove the
splinter from my eye without noticing
the two by four sticking out of yours
how uh
which one do you think you've used more
which platform
oh android android by a long shot at
this point that's what i thought but i
know you've used
quite a bit of so i was i used my iphone
4 for like three years and then i
actually went from that to windows phone
of all things because i was doing like a
review of something um and then that was
terrible uh and then i was pretty much
android until
which one was it i think it was the 6s
was the one that got me back on the
iphone the 6s was a freaking outstanding
phone i might have you know what i might
have daily driven the 6 before the 6s 6s
was awesome 6 was excellent um and then
they haven't won me back the six sold a
ton too that was an extremely ubiquitous
phone
the 6s
yep
both of them were like kind of awesome
i'm trying to find uh how long they
actually updated the old iphone se with
ios
um
yeah there's like a there's a matrix for
how long uh apple ios support matrix
support oh yeah here it is here's here's
a really good one i don't have a quick
and easy way to screen share this with
you guys unfortunately but one of the
other factors to consider when we talk
about budget phones is not just how much
you spend on the phone but also how much
value you're getting out of the phone
like i like to look at things in terms
of
like what it costs per unit of time that
i actually get to use it so if we look
back at the original iphone se uh here
we go so that puppy started out with
uh looks like i want to say ios 9.3
sorry for glaring at the camera my my uh
i'm not using a webcam anymore that's
also why it's higher when i'm looking up
but the screen just like got a lot
brighter and an icon started flashing on
i was like what the heck's happening i
still don't know but i'm just not gonna
worry about it
shoot and of course i'm going on the
site and the bloody
ah
so now i don't know what iphone se it's
talking about
[Laughter]
like already i so support.apple.com
en-ca slash guide iphone slash a bunch
of gibberish ios
there's a list of supported iphone
models and i actually have to click on
it to see that yes that is in fact the
original iphone se apple you do this to
yourselves you do it to yourselves and
you don't have to it's completely
unnecessary
so exactly every every app that like
lists what phones it supports is gonna
be confusing until it gets updated so
yeah so i the iphone se is still
apparently supported on ios 13
and i don't know if it's going to get
see now how do i look it up iphone se
ios 14
support like i don't know
do we know
i was thinking of thinking about you
should have good anyway it's frustrating
so anyway anyone who bought the iphone
se at launch got a solid four years out
of their device and if you're willing to
forego the latest version of ios for
a year
you can probably get away with that i'd
say two years you're starting to push it
in terms of app compatibility if you you
know also have other gadgets in your
life you're gonna run into like app
developers that are like yeah look you
kind of need to be on a current device
we can't keep you know maintaining four
different forks of our software for
people who you know dropped off at
various levels of of
um yeah you're done goofed you need to
go a little bit to your right point it
to your right a little more a little
more a little more
yeah there you go it looks beautiful
okay you're gorgeous
i will make it better next time not this
time so i know we kind of mocked it in
the title of the video i think it's a
pretty solid way to go if you don't like
face id like they they at least haven't
nerfed the performance
i hate the battery
i think the battery is kind of the fu to
make sure that people who can afford
something else don't buy it
that's pretty much the only thing on
here i could see someone complaining
about it is notably smaller as well
4.7 inch versus 6.1 inch
oh i was looking at the wrong window
there yep cool um all right so there you
go that's the iphone sc um i'll be
working on a review of it i mean the big
thing is just gonna be like how good is
that camera how long does that battery
life last those are the two questions to
answer
uh i suspect the camera will be
fine and the battery will be
uh and another apple rumor rumor this
time apple is apparently making
modular headphones
oh my that's right so they're seeking to
augment their airpods business with a
high-end audio product and they're
developing over-ear wireless headphones
with parts that can be swapped in and
out according to people familiar with
the matter so this is originally from
bloomberg there's at least two versions
apparently a premium version with
leather-like fabrics and a
fitness-focused model that uses lighter
breathable materials with small
perforations
how fascinating prototypes of the
headphones have a retro look with
oval-shaped ear cups okay i'ma stop you
right there
me
can we stop designing headphones for
style
can we design headphones that fit on the
ears of
homo sapiens how about that
but then again this is the same
the same company that brought you the
you know billion dollar a month r d
budget
that resulted in a mouse with a charger
on the bottom of it so
i see you surprise me
i feel like i almost don't even
get to talk here because i'm i'm the guy
that
like in terms of in-ears i love the what
i i think is the original apple design
where it doesn't like stick into your
ear and all the super fancy apple ones
still stick into your ear no the air
pods don't stick into your ear they're
more like they're airpods pro though no
the pros yeah the pros well they're in
your mind that's what i meant by the
super fancy okay you can't have active
noise cancellation without like
plugging the ear canal i'm not but
they're they're in the super fancy line
all right fine fine they're super fancy
um
so and i haven't tried those but the
only in-ears i've ever been happy with
are the like apple style ones right um
so you're saying you're like a headphone
pleb basically
kind of all right fine
yeah because all the other ones fall out
i i always forget the i think they're
called spring clip but we did this like
weird video back in the day
about this rubbery thing that would like
hook into the the top of your ear in
order to
keep your headphones in your ears that
was
yeah that was a weird time but i
actually really liked those
i kept them on my headphones for a long
time yeah and i think didn't you end up
like eventually losing them or something
like that
i don't remember what happened but i
think so yeah and then i don't really
think they're a thing anymore
and if they are i doubt they're like the
right
oh wow googling spring clip does
not bring it up properly uh i can't no i
found our video uh sprng clip
wow you look so
young
the store is still up by the way you
look like a
baby and you're acting like a child
you're like rolling around in a field
this is a you must have been absolutely
desperate for a video that day
we were i i specifically remember yeah i
think that's the kind of thing that i
probably like requested a sample
thinking yeah it'll never come to this
we'll never actually have to make a
video of that in order to hit our upload
for a day and then and then it did come
to that and we did in fact have to make
a video about it
i specifically remember that i like had
them in my office for a long time
and we weren't gonna do it and then we
really needed an upload
so you were like hey
time to do the spring clip and i was
like all right i'm gonna have my
roommate tackle me
all right yeah here we go i found the
original email from kirk
uh we follow your youtube channel and
thought you might want to review the new
spring clip for apple earpods uh here's
something new in the product accessory
department that your viewers may be
interested in spring just launched love
the sound of your ear pods but can't
keep them in your ears well you don't
have to replace them really like his
email sounds like an infomercial so i
said sure we'd like to check it out can
you send a spring clip and a set of
apple earpods we don't have any in-house
we were like very not not apple uh yeah
okay what else did wow did i actually
like follow up with this guy a couple
times
i just received a return to sender
package that i sent to you can oh
apparently we missed the shipment the
first time that was back before we
actually had like someone to deal with
that stuff
oh man that's awesome
huh wow i was actually like
very attentive to following up with
people i was like hey we ran them
through our torture test they seem to
help them stay in the video will be up
shortly like i sent him all these
updates for this product that just 100
percent didn't matter at all
[Laughter]
oh good stuff all right so back to
apple's apparently modular headphones
here um
prototypes of the headphones retro look
ear pads and headband padding attached
to the frame of the headphones
magnetically so they can be replaced by
the user that's pretty cool i guess um
the design may also mean that the same
set of headphones would be convertible
from comfort to fitness use and back
again they'll apparently use siri for
voice control what a shock and have a
set of integrated touch controls and
they've apparently been in development
since 2018 their launch has been
postponed at least twice
this doesn't really surprise me i mean
it's not like when they acquired beats
they were not going to you know continue
to develop headphones i think apple's
made it very clear that they're an audio
focused company whether you're looking
at their homepod or
airpods or you know itunes hello uh ipod
um
so this is a perfectly natural thing for
them to to do i mean why you know
this is something that i was trying to
figure out back when i was a pretty
young you know junior product manager
and i was going like hey
why does asus need an rog brand and why
does gigabyte need like aorus and why
does you know oh here's a perfect
example what's what's that stupid
glasses company that basically owns
every glasses company
uh you know what i'm talking about right
the italian one
uh essler exotica yeah yeah yeah one
does one of them does frames one of them
does lenses which one
which one are you wondering about uh i
don't remember but basically i think
they like
are the same company though yeah parent
company
essler does lenses luxottica does frames
but they're like the same
so they merge the point is that they
merged so the point is what i was
wondering as a young and naive product
manager is
why don't they just have one product
like under one name it's like i i trust
you know
this name just fine why do you need
another one and the answer is so that
you can take up more shelf space if
apple has
apple headphones and
beats headphones then they can go and
they can kind of differentiate them
while having a clear identity for both
of those brands and take up twice as
much shelf space the clear identity is i
think part of it too like if when you're
when you're
if you have i don't know
like when you go through the the shampoo
aisle
there it's the same companies yeah but
like like the same parent company owns
the like yeah
metal shampoo for guys that like cars
and then they also own the like metal
shampoo fluffy girl one i don't know
okay
the branding on that stuff is ridiculous
can somebody please create that product
i want
i want a shampoo called metal shampoo
there should be actual metal shavings in
it
it's it comes out it doesn't matter if
it clogs your drain because you're a man
you can clear it
you know how to wear it
it shouldn't it shouldn't clog your
drain it should like clear it out it
should clear it out drain cleaner at the
same time lord i don't think anyone
should use shampoo that's drain cleaner
unless they're a man
[Laughter]
um so moving on uh so that's a neat um
that's that's a neat sort of rumor uh
but yeah i mean it's no surprise in the
last fiscal year apple generated almost
25 billion dollars from accessories
including airpods uh beats headphones
and the apple watch that's like almost
as much as it took in from the mac
lineup as a whole and about three
billion more than the ipad the ipad is
so just like the redheaded stepchild at
this point
i don't think anyone cares about new
ipads at all does anyone care about
almost any new tablet at all though like
no but the ipad kind of bucked that
trend for a long time
well i think the ipad pro thing has like
its own space but it's also really
expensive so
i don't know
um i've seen more talk about those
lately than any of their other tablets
well i mean have you seen more talk
though about
our sponsor for today's show
yes god absolutely savage jerky i oh man
this sucks because
this actually does kind of yeah this is
the one this is the one disadvantage to
doing the show
uh remotely because now i wanna have
some savage jerky to celebrate
getting paid by savage jerky to talk
about savage jerky and i can't cause i
don't have any here because they didn't
send me any in my care package today
um all right fine well you know what
makes great jerky you might think it's
flavor and you'd be right but you'd only
be half right savage turkey
it's full of metal
savage jerky is handcrafted in small
batches and does not use nitrates or
preservatives so they're able to make
amazing jerky that like isn't gonna kill
you so that's that's good right uh they
have 13 different flavors from their
sweet teriyaki to their intense spicy
carolina reaper and they don't just make
jerky they've got hot sauces barbecue
sauces and even a spice rub i have not
tried the spice rub but i can tell you
from first-hand experience if it's
anywhere near as good as the hot sauces
or the barbecue sauces then it's awesome
so go check them out use offer code ltt
and you can get ten percent off
savageriki products at lmg dot gg slash
savage jerky
um
okay we've got an old vanity url down
here but that's fine because we've also
got a really really like look at this
thing oh there it is look at this
ancient wan show logo this is back
before we even like centered the hexagon
luke's tuned out but that's fine i'll
tell you about manscaped manscaped makes
manscaping safe and easy with their
perfect package 3.0 for those of you who
don't get the joke manscaping is is
landscaping your man parts
and the perfect package 3.0 is like that
package yes it includes everything you
need to take your grooming routine to
the next level
but like safely
so the main item in the kit is their
lawnmower 3.0 trimmer featuring their
skin safe technology replaceable soft
ceramic blades a 7000 rpm motor a
rechargeable 600 milliamp hour battery
and of course
waterproofness and an led light because
the thing is there are some places you
need to manscape that are so dark you
might just need to take a lantern with
you all right it's not a lantern it's
it's an led it's an efficient it's more
efficient solution with less fire in it
which is good because you know you let
one rip well you got a lantern down
there you're going to have a gas
explosion and nobody's going to have a
good time and
you're going to have to go and do some
awkward google searches for how to fix
these problems and you're going to want
to use pia to make sure that nobody sees
you looking at that stuff wow is pia in
your online security tool kit yet
well it should be adding a vpn lets you
mask your ip and encrypt traffic to and
from your devices pia has reliable
service with over 3 300 servers in 30
countries and they now feature wireguard
woo it's got built-in wire guard love it
it's beta still but they're working on
it pia has no bandwidth caps so yes if
you had a you know gigantic 500 gigabyte
you know porno ultimate package or
something that you were downloading you
could download that whole thing with pia
you could i'm not saying you should i'm
just saying that you could
entirely possible you know people might
judge you but they can't because they
don't know that's right you heard it
here first try it risk-free with their
30-day money-back guarantee
i mean unless they're your mom and they
like you know walk up behind you while
you're working on it
working on downloading the thing not
that okay look luke i've had enough of
your shenanigans uh connect up to five
devices at once with clients for windows
mac os android ios and linux and their
mace feature blocks requests to know
malware and tracking domains all
together check it out at mmg pia wan
that's right oh right i can't reach
across the i tried to reach across the
thing to point but i can't can you point
can you point at that for me please luke
thank you a little bit to your right i
can't see like yeah a little bit to your
left a little bit to your left uh yep
a little bit to the left i want you
centered yeah oh that's beautiful oh
it's just beautiful i get a little bit
of a bounce there just like a bit of a
bouncing oh wow that's great good l grgg
slash pia when
all right i want to tell you about my
air conditioning project can i tell you
about my air conditioning project i
can't i want to say one quick thing
before we go into that i love how i was
like laughing about products uh branded
for like men and stuff and then we got
savage jerky
oh yeah right metal
and then like a
uh manscaping lawn mower and like almost
just so intense sorry yes tell me about
your project yes okay i am super excited
about this project because as you know
i've been working from home um and i
haven't had a crew to help me move heavy
things around so c-stands lights cameras
tripods i've been lugging them up and
down the stairs tables i got to move
tables around because i'm trying not to
just shoot in the same spot every day
so that everything gets you know boring
and samey um it's starting to get warm
the actual air outside is not that warm
but the sun is warm and
i i live indoors with my windows closed
for the most part so it gets kind of hot
in my house at least for me like i'm the
kind of person who's like
i i like lift up my phone too fast and
i'm like oh i'm sweating like i'm not
out of breath i'm not it's not like an
out of shape thing it's just i'm the
kind of person that like immediately
starts sweating when i do anything
and so
i uh so i was feeling really
uncomfortable and right the straw that
broke the camel's back or should i say
the gigantic like 80 pound weight that
broke the camel's back was that while i
was moving all this heavy stuff around
my stupid floor standing air
conditioning unit that i put in the
kid's room so that they could sleep
because it was really uncomfortable for
we've had a couple of really intense
heat waves the last few summers in a row
so i finally did it last year i got
these stupid air conditioning units
don't worry i didn't pay much for them i
actually got one of them from nick for
like i think i paid him like a hundred
bucks for it it was a great deal um
yeah it's awesome awesome i'm in a very
good negotiating position you know
it's not that he he actually just wanted
to get rid of it he was like okay
yeah he moved and he didn't need it
anymore anyway the point is i finally
got a couple of these air conditioning
units one for each of the bedrooms and
um i was so i was i was moving stuff
around and i was all sweaty and then i
went and i realized that was in my way
so i had to play you know those little
puzzles where there's nine squares and
one of them is blank and you got to kind
of move the things around you've only
got one blank square so this but my poor
kid's bedroom is like full of c-stands
and lights and
and like monitor boxes and all this crap
and i've got this stupid floor standing
air conditioning unit i've got nowhere
to put it and it's heavy so i have to
like lift it up and over something and
i'm like screw it i walk into the the
office where i'm sitting right now
yvonne's on her computer doing
accounting or something whatever it is
she does and
i'm like okay we got to get air
conditioning and she's like
we've been through this
we got as far as bringing people in for
multiple quotes every single quote was
between 25 and 30 thousand dollars are
you ready to spend thirty thousand
dollars and i was like
okay forget it
but then
i went on amazon okay
went on amazon
and i was like
surely there's got to be like
some way to do this uh well okay before
i did that first i came up with the idea
of tearing apart the floor standing air
conditioning units and like
somehow ghetto mounting like like
putting it up in the attic and like
ducting the cool air down into the room
and the hot air like down out of the
attic and like outside or something
crazy like that
and then one quick thing for the
audience because there's a decent amount
of people mentioning this right now ac
is actually i would say probably
notably uncommon in at least
i think all of canada but definitely are
part of canada uh yeah i think it's more
common in the east where they have more
um where they have hotter summers but
it's it's not it's not a given feature
here guys
okay so
yeah they they wanted so the reason that
it was 30 grand is because my house was
not originally designed for it so
instead of like i don't i use electric
baseboards for heating in the upstairs
so the downstairs has forced air so
theoretically we could run ac downstairs
pretty easily but downstairs is not
where it gets hot upstairs is where it
gets hot so upstairs is heated by
electric baseboards um
so there's there's no cooling
capabilities there and that means that
there's no ducting so there's nowhere to
like
run the cold air into so anyway i came
up with the brilliant idea of like
putting that thing up in the attic and
then like venting the air to the places
where it's supposed to go and i was like
actually that's really stupid there's no
way that's the best way to do this
there surely there has to be a way to do
this so i come across what are called
cassette
air conditioners
so it's called a mini split cassette
and what it is is you know though you
know the like air vent things that you
would find in a drop ceiling in an
office
huh they look kind of like a big fat
beefy one of those
for the evaporator side so that's the
cold side and then the condenser side is
just like uh another kind of like
you know boxy like fan looking unit that
just kind of sits somewhere and it's
called a mini split because the
condenser and the evaporator are split
from each other and then they've got the
lines running between them the the um
the refrigerant lines
so
um
basically
they're like a grand
for a 9000 btu unit
um and then around uh and that's that's
i think usd hold on let me go so i found
this brand that makes them um that i
assumed was like some weirdo
uh like no name chinese brand or
something like that and i was like kind
of worried and sketched out because it
was on amazon and like i couldn't really
find any references to them or anything
like that and then i googled them it
turns out they're based out of montreal
they've been around for like 15 years
they've got a whole like whack of
different product offerings and all
kinds of good stuff and uh
their canadian pricing is actually super
reasonable
uh so hold on let me bring up their
their canadian website uh so they're
called senville
and
i don't know how to find their canadian
site right now it like prompted me last
time anyway it starts at it starts at a
thousand us dollars for a 9000 btu unit
and then the 12 000 is like 1200 bucks
and so i was like wow that's brilliant
so all i need to do is just fish the
wiring out of the wall
throw this up in the ceiling and i'm
good to go small problem they're 240
volt
so this is not a matter of me just
making sure that i'm not on the same
that i don't overload the existing
circuits um
i i it's like oh i can't actually just
run this off of the regular in-wall
wiring or so i thought
i was on a phone call with brian the
electrician and he was like okay well
what are you like what are you using um
you know right now of something
something you know what if we cleared
space with you or something and he
mentioned he mentioned my heated
baseboards and i was like
brian you're a genius
i don't need the heated baseboards
anymore because they're actually heat
pumps
so they do both heating and cooling
because oh right he was the so his
solution he wanted to have like some
kind of elaborate like changeover switch
down by my panel where i was like okay
we're in heating mode or cooling mode
and i was like no brian you're a genius
they're heat pumps so we could actually
just
turn completely disconnect the heated
baseboards and run these in the same
places
so i'm waiting i'm waiting to hear back
from them about um how
and if i can have smart controllers for
them because what's nice about this
compared to central ac is that every
room is its own individual zone and can
be adjusted um one by one now there are
solutions to that i've like actually
spent a bunch of time researching this
junk in the last little bit um what's it
called
i don't know how well it works so don't
consider this to be an endorsement of
any sort but there's a company called
flair that makes smart vents apparently
that will allow you to uh if you have
central ac you know just like the little
grilles that go on the floor
so they'll they will smart like
automatically um adjust close and open
themselves so that all the rooms are
like cooled evenly so i thought that was
pretty neat but in terms of like what's
built into most central acs it's just
wherever the thermostat is that's like
the temperature it cools too and if
you're far away from that it might not
be right
so you're you've clearly accepted the
fact that you're gonna be punching holes
in your ceiling oh yeah
but
you've considered the whole idea of
punching holes in your roof as well uh
okay so getting back to that i've got a
couple of different options
so
basically wherever i've got a heated
baseboard and i've got i think it's six
of them upstairs um i have the potential
to install one of these mini split air
conditioning systems
so
with some caveats so the basic like 9000
btu unit is like 750 watts whereas my
smallest
heated baseboard is like 350 watts so
it's not going to be a one-to-one
replacement i don't have enough power
and right this was where i was
originally really running into troubles
i was like okay i'm just gonna fill my
attic with these things except that when
i installed my electric car charger i
filled the last spots on my panel so i
would have to go to the city i would
have to find out if the lines going to
my house are big enough i'd have to get
a permit i mean i should probably get a
permit for this anyway but i i won't um
but i would definitely have to get a
permit for something like expanding my
electrical uh panel um and the city city
of syria is not doing permits right now
because of covid i know that because
we're trying to finish construction at
the office and there's been
zero progress uh really yeah oh yeah oh
yeah zero progress yeah it's really
frustrating
i know trust me i know i know i know um
so so anyway i was like oh no we can't
do that so right so we solved i'm
telling this story totally out of order
but the point is we solve the power
problem i've got about 3 000 watts to
work with so i can either do four of
those 9000 btu units or i can do like
one of the bigger 12 12 000 btu ones and
then like two nine thousands or maybe
three nine thousands brian says he
thinks that's pretty borderline um
because you don't want to have too many
motors running on the same circuit at a
time in case they all kick on at the
same time
um
so anyway that's my that's my plan and
the total cost um with like hiring brian
for a weekend to come help me with it
because i'm just gonna like we're just
gonna ghetto fabulous install them up in
the attic is
going to be somewhere in the
neighborhood of around six thousand
dollars is what i'm expecting and so
cheaper than 30. it is going to be
literally about a quarter
a quarter the like median estimate that
we got for putting like a pad outside
the house which they wouldn't even be
able to do now because i added the car
charger so that wasn't even going to be
an option doing proper like central ac
in this place and they were going to put
in like all this ducting and everything
and i'm sitting here looking at this
going why were you even going to do it
that way like i don't mind ghettoing it
up a little bit so options for
installing these things
i could
put them up in the attic and then like
duct the heat to exhaust it out the um
the peaks or under the soffits
but i think it would be better um
like
better functionally to have it outside
just in case there's like condensation
or whatever else like it would be it
would be smarter to have it mounted
under the soffit outside or something
like that they're weatherproof units so
i could kind of put them anywhere
but yeah it's they'll be ugly if i have
them outside but i think i can probably
make do with that you could make a thing
for them
like a
like a housing unit box thing or
something to make it less ugly
yeah you can mount them in
they're i mean they're not
as far as air conditioning units go
they're not horrendously ugly um i wish
i had a convenient and easy way to send
it oh actually i do have a way to send
it to you i'm just going to send it to
you here so i'll send that over to you
they look kind of like that like it's
not too bad but
i mean it would look it wouldn't look
amazing it wouldn't look amazing um
anyway i what i'm gonna start with is
i'm just gonna i'm gonna wait to hear
back from them about smart control uh it
seems like as long as it's ir controlled
this flare company says they should be
able to control it because they um they
just use the same ir signals kind of
like a universal tv remote um
so i'm i'm hoping that even if i can't
use like a nest for them i can use this
thing works with nest is actually i got
an email back from them because i was
thinking well what i could do is i could
use these flare things and then i could
use nest thermostats to communicate with
those or something and they were like
yeah it's funny you bring that up uh
since august 31st when google sunseted
works with nest no new third-party
devices can communicate with nest smart
thermostats google replaced works with
nest with works with google assistant
which cannot yet control nest smart
thermostats for remote sensors i'm like
thank you google this is exactly what
you do you know it's so stupid hangouts
and hangouts meet and duo and whatever
the crap else you know things that do
all the same thing and none of them
actually do everything yeah i'll love
thank you for that it's so frustrating
you know
it's infuriating
and when they launched duo and aloe at
the exact same time i was like this
isn't gonna go well but hey
internal competition right like that's
the way to build a better product right
you know
aloe hangouts let's just not make any of
them better from the point that they're
at now
well that's what ends up happening
like they reach that minimum viable
product they launch and then they're
like well you know now
i feel like in some ways google gets
trapped in the like
you know well now that we've got this
out there and we see all the problems
we've got like this grand vision but the
you know the foundation that we laid
isn't really good enough to do it so
let's just start over
i feel like they end up in that cycle
over and over and over again when it's
like no no just make it like
incrementally better please
like yes i know it might not be perfect
but if it's good enough that i'm using
it now
then if it was ten percent better
next year that would be good
you know
yeah
absolutely
um anyways
you talked about their spice rubs um i
don't know if they would i don't
it doesn't say spice rub on it so i
don't know but i've been using this a
lot recently
the herba blend i believe that
yes i know that we're past the sponsor
spot but it took me
i got my girlfriend to toss it to me and
stuff um it's been amazing on everything
i've put it on it's been great
so i just wanted to give them that did
you try your penis
no i didn't
maybe you should
if you
bleep those that bleeps to me too
doesn't it
penis isn't a bad word
you're just i mean it's not like or
you know
fair yep yep that bleeps now it's
honestly like way less shocking i don't
i don't know why
when i didn't hear the bleeps i just
something inside me every time was like
no
you can't say that i actually like it so
much better when you don't hear the
bleeps it's it's funnier for me because
your reactions are just
priceless every single time your
reaction is priceless because you're
like
do we swear on wan show now
i'm so happy
now i don't have to restrain myself i
can say
all i
want whoa
i turned off his bleeps guys
let's start everyone's like why does the
mic sound different and then just wham
yeah
yeah you got you got whammed all right
um why don't we talk about the guy that
built a nintendo switch from scratch
yeah
so is the original source for this
actually img
uh i think so user sar
37 three days ago um do you want to do
you want to share this on screen by any
chance
uh it's a little tricky for me to do
right now but i will try to get that
going just start the topic and it'll
show up eventually you know what it's
fine i'll do it i'll do it i'll do it
why don't you do the topic you haven't
talked much today you go ahead
all right well uh sarbaz 37 as linus
said built his own custom switch from
various parts that he bought on the
internet that did include a uh what did
they exactly call it
replacement motherboard um
that's where the software came from uh
just in case you're wondering like how
the heck did he get the operating system
and everything on there he's got a list
of components that goes really really
long but most of it's like you know
pretty cheap and it equaled about 200
right now due to everyone being stuck at
home and coveted and whatnot and and
animal crossing coming out all at the
same time uh switch prices went through
the roof because you can't find them
anywhere so he decided to build his own
apparently the ebay average price was
close to two times his uh bill of
materials cost that being said
not 100 sure everyone's gonna be
comfortable doing this
but yeah that is not a a small
undertaking looking at that pile of
parts yeah
it also doesn't look impossible well no
i mean if people can do it in a in a
factory i'm sure that uh with you know
the amazing guides that exist like it
can be done pretty easily
i mean even not for
like like i
this looks possible for someone who
is maybe at least somewhat comfortable
with electronics in general like built a
computer before and if you follow this
guy's guide which honestly looks awesome
um
you could you could maybe do it yeah
this looks this looks incredible
yeah i love it it looks like a really
fun project it really does build your
own nintendo switch for 200 bucks that's
freaking awesome
you should do it
it's not a bad idea actually
you should be like
and like give them a shout out whatever
but like we i wanted to see
having some electronics background
because you've messed with the rc cars
and done some stuff like that um i want
to see if i can build my own switch too
i think i that would i would watch that
for sure
yeah i should i should stick someone on
that
cool
i mean yeah apparently
upwards of 450 to 600 dollars for a used
switch in the seattle area wow i should
sell my switch
dang
i mean it's crazy like the way that the
that the
the whole like coved hoarding slash
panic buying thing is affecting
different things right like first of all
this new mobile paper you keep cutting
out
oh really oh sorry
i lost like half of that uh first it was
toilet paper that people were panicked
buying right and then it was uh and then
it was what uh what was the next one i
forget but after that it was like hair
dye like everyone was buying hair dye
because it had been you know six weeks
and people needed to needed to do a dye
job on their roots or whatever and then
like now it's now it's nintendo switches
uh you know what oh it's been it's
actually been in total switches for a
little while now this actually leads
really well into uh one of the topics
that i wanted to talk about so i had a
topic in the doc here called
i was right
i actually you're legitimately cutting
out a lot for me i can barely understand
what you're saying hold on i will fix it
i will fix it all right
look luke i will fix it okay just have
some patience
oh god i
can't handle that
okay is that better
that's better
all right all right all right um all
right so
yeah so i made a video a little while
ago that i received some criticism for a
lot of people were like oh yeah this
makes sense thanks for the great video
but a lot of people were like oh this is
like fear-mongering this is contributing
to the problem this is this is stupid or
whatever else and it was called buy a
computer right now was what that video
was called um
and
what it was based on was like look at
the time uh youtube was demonetizing or
at least putting limited monetization on
videos that talked about coronavirus or
kovid19 or anything like that so i kind
of danced around it but i said look
regardless
of
the outcome of what's going on in the
world right now that was all i could
really say regardless of that
supply chains have been disrupted and i
didn't say run out and panic by all the
computers i didn't say anything like
that but what i did say was if you are
planning to buy a computer
do it now as opposed to waiting because
pricing is going to go up and there were
some people that disagreed with my
analysis with my evaluation
at the time when that video was
published factories were already ramping
their production back up but the reason
that i went ahead and i published it
anyway because was because i knew that
those factories weren't at a hundred
percent even when every factory in asia
and around the world is running at 100
you can still run into uh dips in supply
and spikes in demand and people's
behavior was going to be
unpredictable over the next little while
so there were all these things that
were contributing to me being pretty
darn sure that we were going to be in a
situation where if there was something
that you wanted you should probably pull
the trigger on it today rather than
waiting around and that has turned out
to be true so that video was published
on
uh february 29th so that was about a
month just over a month and a half ago
and if you had bought your switch on
february 29th you would have paid retail
price and i even made it clear in the
video that this was not just about
computers i talked about computers a lot
because it's something that i know
really well from my background as a
product manager for computer hardware so
i talked about that but i also
specifically mentioned badminton
shuttles as something that was in short
supply and that had prices just
skyrocketing at the time now with all
the gyms closed nobody's playing
badminton so that situation seems to
have sorted itself out but um but
there's one thing i'll add in here as
well is uh and badminton shuttles is
specifically what made me think of this
because the the like plastics and stuff
involved um a decent amount of
manufacturing has switched over to
supplies that are more in need during
covid uh masks face shields uh
other things because i'm not any person
yeah but yeah so so like people making
uh
birdies did you call them
um shuttles there we go sorry excuse me
shuttle
um
those factories may or may not i don't
know but they may have switched over to
making something else in the meantime so
the the demand might still stay pretty
high there even if the factories are
running
yeah yeah um and so the so i so i
specifically mentioned other things
because that was my point if there was
some kind of frivolous stupid thing that
you were planning to buy like a toy like
a gaming computer or like a nintendo
switch or whatever the case may be you
should pull the trigger now and
the supply chain is interrupted at
basically every stage now so
distribution
drivers are being pushed really hard
right now to get supplies out to
warehouses
the last mile is overwhelmed you can see
amazon has got those warnings on their
site that are like yeah we have reduced
the availability of you know whatever
due to there are more pressing things
that need to be delivered and the
workforce is is small and all those all
those kinds of issues that we're going
through right now and so i just want to
say that i [__] called it
six weeks ago i said if you want to buy
something you should buy it today and uh
oh another example that is specific to
computer hardware webcams are basically
out of stock everywhere
capture cards you like cannot get them
anything to do with game streaming so
emma's not the only one that's like hey
i'm not working right now you know what
i'm just going to be a game streamer
yeah and i mean
luckily for her it's actually working
out quite well but um it's it's i'm not
i'm not surprised when the second i
kind of clicked in like
i thought classes were just gonna go on
hold
yeah and they weren't gonna bother
trying to get every teacher on the
freaking planet to be able to teach from
home yeah they did
and that's amazing but the second i
heard that that was the thing i was like
oh no oh yeah
webcams i don't think
have a gigantic market so when this
happened like
oh my goodness supply chains were
obviously not ready for that yeah or
like they do
but
um the the upgrade cycle of that market
is pretty slow like i think if you
bought a webcam in the last three or
four years uh they haven't bought
another one yeah they haven't improved
significantly in that i was gonna say
and with good reason because they're not
much better yeah exactly
um
yeah so yeah that's all that's all i
really had to say about that was like
thank you doubters and haters um i
actually nailed it and my timing if
anything was uh maybe even a little bit
late because i know there were some
things that were already a little bit
more challenging to to find even if the
pricing hadn't necessarily been affected
yet but i would expect that there are
still going to be things that are going
to spike in pricing before all this
thing is all this whole thing is over
and it won't necessarily be core
components like dram
but it also could and that was one of
the points that i made in the video i
was like look samsung just shut down the
factory that makes i forget what phone
it was but some phone z-flip i think it
was they shut down that factory it was
only for a weekend but like
this is not going to be the last time
that something unexpectedly shuts down
so
if you want some certainty if you want
to know how much things cost are going
to cost then you should do it now and
the right the thing that actually
prompted me to be all like haha told you
so about this was the comments on the
stream that i did i think it was two
weeks ago on a friday
it was a 800 friday build stream
at the time we specced that machine it
was 800
give or take um i think we ended up with
the rgb version of the case instead of
the regular one so it was like a bit
more or something uh but it was about
and the comments on that video are full
of people who have clicked down below
followed all the links and are like this
is like a thousand dollars
i'm like
i mean that sucks yeah but it's it's
kind of funny that the point was proven
i guess
and you know what you can't you can't
predict the future yeah what do you guys
want from me all i can when i title a
video all i can title it is what it is
today i can't title it what it is
tomorrow like i can't you know what you
know what i should do right now is i
should go back and change the title of
that video buy a computer right now i'm
going to change it to buy a computer six
weeks ago
because apparently that's the answer
you should make like a follow-up video
called don't buy a computer right now
or something and just go over like look
this is what happened to the prices and
check out like average prices across
different components across the stack
yeah i wonder if we could do it like
sponsored by honey or something because
they've got their um
discount price history thing
oh yeah
yeah
see i'm always always working them
angles that's big brain working
angles big brain thank you for that i
haven't had my daily dose of memes today
all right should we talk through the uh
let's see oh do you want to talk through
the new steam controller patent
hey remember that thing that you all
thought was kind of crap and so we
stopped making it hey hey this might be
good for one game here comes the sequel
um it could be kinda neat to play
civilization on your couch with a
controller so the original source here
is from rock paper shotgun and there's a
patent filing that they found that seems
to suggest valve could be working on a
new steam controller one that's more
similar to an xbox elite controller that
would be good because
um the xbox elite controller is really
good and the steam controller was really
something not good it was well i don't
know if you played civilization from the
couch then it was
basically
it was your only option other than like
laying a gigantic keyboard lap thing
across your couch so
yeah uh so the patent describes a
gamepad receiver that includes housings
for multiple kinds of input i mean i
know that my receiver is ready for
multiple kinds of input if you know what
i'm talking about so i don't know if you
can like patent that but sure
so
example an analog stick
could be easily uh put in
um instead of a directional pad yeah
inserted depending on what feels best on
a game-by-game basis i'm just reading
the notes the way they're written here
okay software within the pad would
detect which input is currently plugged
in and react accordingly it's sensitive
to those types of changes so it seems
this would apply to inputs across the
controller oh multiple inputs wow this
is getting real edgy including the steam
controller's infamous alola track pads
oh all right it might even
is it two circles
yeah but you gotta like rub them just
right with your two fingers you know
like you gotta
massage them um all right so i think
we're done here
sounds neat so it's like a modular
gamepad that's pretty cool um
i accidentally i just got a gpro
wireless and i keep accidentally hitting
the back i got to just disable this
button over here because i keep mashing
it all the time
so i just went back in my browser but i
think there's one more topic that i
wanted to get through so there's a rumor
that there's going to be some quad cores
and two cpus
amd maybe secretly developing quad-core
cpus based on zen 2 architecture to
compete with intel's looming 10th
generation comet lake s core i3
offerings which feature hyper threading
oh my amd's ryzen 3000 series desktop tv
lineup started with the ryzen 5 3600
which spans 6 cores and 12 threads
um
all right blah blah blah blah they never
made a successor to the previous
generation ryzen 3's
there are two ways that amd could spit
out a quad core ryzen 3. they could
salvage imperfect ryzen 5 3600s and
disable the defective ccx or they could
utilize an entirely new design where
there's only a single ccx
huh interesting that would be very very
low cost but i wonder what the
performance implications of that would
be
a single ccx has 16 megs of level 3 and
2 megs the level 2 cache and the leaker
claimed that the ryzen 3 300x and ryzen
33100 will come with clock speeds of 4.3
and 3.9 gigahertz respectively those
could be like
freaking awesome gaming chips actually
like a 4.3 gigahertz
uh
quad core ryzen would be fine
for like i was gonna say very effective
for
like like one of the things that i liked
about these processors was they were
they were good for so many things oh
yeah i think you're narrowing yourself
down a little bit but if the if that is
all that you do
you could probably save a lot of money
and get a very similar experience yeah
if that's all that you do you got two
options you can go intel
or you can
go like
super cheap ryzen 3.
there you go it's cool and if you do
anything else then you can get a ryzen 5
a ryzen 7 or a ryzen 9.
there you go easy easy easy peasy it's
admin okay it's not that it's not that
cut and dried it's not like intel's
lineup doesn't have like higher
performance options yeah higher up in
the stack i'm just
being an amd fanboy right now
i'm role playing
okay
what i can be into role playing there's
nothing wrong with that luke don't judge
no no yeah don't judge
i'm not you're good i detect your
judgment over the internet
[Laughter]
wow i've got a chat here from hell
bringer
the chat is actually readable today no
it isn't how fast do you read
it's impossible
twitch chat's relatively readable well
yeah but twitch chats i guess that was
on youtube so
i think i'm just gonna go full-time
twitch streamer i have been getting
anywhere from uh sort of 600 to 700
viewers playing beat saber
which my understanding is pretty good
for beat saber because nobody
gives a [__] about beat saber and then
you also don't interact with the chat at
all yeah so you're just playing beat
saber i do a little bit i actually i
take song requests in beat saber
oh okay so that's something yeah i mean
i left consistently floatplane which i'm
currently watching on right now by the
way but i left the floatplane stream
open after lan show
and
when you went live i was off my computer
for like a while after wine show last
week and then
i sat down and i put my headphones on
and i could hear
music and it was that like
russian
um
i know the one uh rasputin
yeah yeah yeah yeah um
and i was like what is happening
where is this coming from how like i i
knew the song even and i i like the song
so it like didn't seem too out of whack
to for it to be like coming out of my
headphones but i knew that i hadn't
listened to the song in a really long
time and it sounded kind of weird yeah
like what the heck is going on and it
took me a little while to like figure
out that oh this is the floating page is
still open nice
so how many viewers do you need to go
full time twitch
well i guess that
it's not really viewers it's not really
it's based on subs how many
yeah but i mean like average numbers
would you would you know this
anyone in the chat know this okay
because i i was managing to pull off
between 1100 and 1300 on anno which i am
convinced is a game that even fewer
people care about
or would like to watch um
wow can you be slightly less judgmental
because i'm really feeling a lot more of
your judgmental vibes here again
i like watching
but i think most people wouldn't
what no i do
i sat at your house and watched you play
anno for a while
that's true but i was like teaching you
how to play that's different
that's fair but i think it's also i
don't really watch twitch i wouldn't
watch a random person play hannah on
twitch i would watch you playing on
twitch yeah that's fair i like i like
like i like watching
uh colton's streams i like watching
sprawls streams one of my friends i like
watching like my genuine friends i'm not
really a fan of
people have i'm not a twitch person
people have no idea a lot of people it's
because it's all over the place yeah it
depends on what
full-time means for you in terms of
financials
and there's a pretty huge variance in
how many subscribers you get versus your
viewership depending on how consistently
you stream right what categories you
stream in
um how how big of a streamer you are
what types of rewards like how big of a
streamer you are or like uh
well okay so i've got a lot of people
that are saying like 75 and it's like no
i can tell you guys right now you're not
you have a day job or you should have a
day job if you've got 75 concurrents
yeah anyway whatever i lied i'm not
doing that youtube's better
sorry obviously sorry sorry sorry twitch
i still even said i don't know if i even
want to say it on here because i still
think it's a really really awesome idea
but the
here one sec
what what is what is this
are you are you sending this to me by
chat first
uh yes uh uh-oh all right this is some
this is some top top cac secret top
secret keck
stuff right here
man he's like he's thinking about his
typing too this is crazy all right i'm
gonna do a couple super chats while i
wait for that top secret message to come
in guys don't send any more i'm not
doing any super chats that haven't
already come in and i won't even do all
the ones that did come in
i i don't even understand why people
send super chats to this show
all right michael kenny says you know
what hasn't happened in a while luke's
mom
wow yeah you got to make it a your mom
joke right like she's like i'm gonna no
no it specifically says luke's mom
calling in the middle of the show says i
missed that luke you gotta call your mom
you gotta take care of your mom okay
yeah yeah
my mom and my girlfriend play animal
crossing together
that's hilarious yeah if you want to if
you want to hang out with luke's mom uh
you just got to go check out leafy time
right planty planty time time plant
time all right orion madsen says i'm
watching on float plane low to the tab
early that's good stuff yeah the site
was
down for a bit
we're having some issues it's back up
now it's back up now it's all good also
i sent you this stuff on discord oh so
so you did uh oh discord is worse can
you send it on the other one
yes uh jacob says please make a video on
the ac stuff oh yeah so i originally
wasn't going to make a video because
it's going to be super ghetto fabulous
and i don't want to like get in trouble
with the city when they see the video
but i've done enough things on camera
that the city wouldn't like and they
haven't gone after me so far that i
figure yeah what's one more so uh not
only am i gonna be making a video i'm
gonna be bringing out the one and only
brian the electrician uh we're gonna be
maintaining our social distancing um
i've already checked with him he's been
uh his job is very um isolated so he's
not really seeing people at work and he
said he's only like going to the grocery
store he's doing all the hand washing
all the all the two meter distance all
that all that good stuff so um as long
as as we're two meters away from each
other he's gonna come hang with me for a
little bit
and we're going to
uh we're gonna we're gonna get some
stuff installed together so it'll
probably be like
i do the you know downstairs stuff he
does the upstairs stuff or i do the
inside stuff he does the outside stuff
we'll figure out some way to keep
separate but we're gonna have some fun
we're gonna install that thing and uh
it's gonna be some classic classic linus
and brian the electrician good times
uh okay so what is this
oh that's like that's a that's a
brilliant idea that i have no idea how
we would technically implement but yeah
i would probably not talk about that for
now
yeah i brought this up a long time ago
and you had pretty much the same
response i still think it could be
amazing i think it could be amazing too
because okay so guys time for some
inside baseball um as an experiment one
of the reasons that i did that 800
build
a couple weeks ago is that
um
how do i put this okay i was testing
something
since the covid situation uh the cpms uh
by the way luke they get that ping every
time you send me a message so you might
want to send consolidated messages
rather than one line at a time i'll just
i'll just stop yeah thank you um i have
all my notifications for that turned off
so i don't even
yeah yeah i know that's why you don't
reply to my messages right away um all
right so anyway
so one of the reasons that i did that
was because i had noticed ever since
this covid thing went down um there's
been a significant drop in the cpms so
the amount that uh you're getting paid
per ads or not per ad so i should say
rpms so the amount that you're getting
paid per view on youtube
is significantly lower than last year
and it's been it's been like kind of
frustrating for me because last year
this time was a big low for us uh we had
a really really hard time for the first
probably third of last year um i don't
know what it was i don't know if we
ended up in a negative momentum cycle
after uploading too many spammy videos
during ces
the the platform doesn't
take that as well anymore it used to be
that you could just you know upload 60
show coverage videos in a week and then
go back to normal the next week and it
would be fine now it's just not that way
whether it's the audience treating that
kind of notification spam differently or
whether it's the platform treating that
kind of notification spam differently it
just doesn't fly anymore
so even though viewership is up almost
double over this period last year um
adsense is up
it's up but a fraction of that it's like
way way lower than it would be if we
were in the same situation as we were
this time last year um
so that's that's fine i get it obviously
that's uh that's a very first world
problem i'm lucky to even have a job to
do it all but what i had also noticed
was that some of the videos that were
performing best in that sense were long
format live streams and so i was like
hey you know what um guys let's throw
together an idea for a live stream hey
you know what uh there's a lot of people
that are stuck at home there's a lot of
people that want a gaming rig but don't
necessarily have a ton of money to spend
let's do a budget gaming rig
and let's do it as a live stream rather
than as like a build guide and let's do
it long format to see if that's still
true and i just looked back at it today
and compared to
normal videos last year that one
performed about the same
as last year this time whereas our
regular uploads are way underperforming
so for some reason um again i don't know
how interesting this is to
people watching at home um
but long format even though we don't do
additional ad breaks so i've had a lot
of people uh you know leave snarky
comments on our videos that are like 10
minutes and 20 seconds long oh you guys
had to get over that 10 minute limit
actually that 10-minute restriction is
yeah is so that you can put in an ad
break but we don't inject youtube ad
breaks into our videos we have our own
sponsors that we put in everything
regardless of whether it's 10 minutes
long so the only reason that it was over
10 minutes long was because we felt that
there were over
10 minutes of
content um
that's the only reason
but with this very long format stuff
even though we don't put in any ad
breaks it still seems to outperform the
regular stuff and i just don't really
understand why
uh
yeah
i don't know man i know it has nothing
to do with youtube premium that's
separate
there's a bunch of people in twitch chat
shouting flow plane right now i do
appreciate that and yeah that's
relatively fixed how much they make from
it so
um
but yes i think with everyone stuck at
home
streams right now are
really popular
i i it feels i haven't looked into this
but it feels like the average viewership
on stuff like twitch has just been huge
stephen ma wants to know who answers
craigslist emails uh usually tyler
sorry totally i wasn't responding to
what you're saying at all sorry i've
been i've been reading the chat i'm
trying to actually interact funny
questions yeah yeah yeah you're good um
lekip says hey thanks for the show
atlinus how's progress on your book
uh actually
i'm glad you asked um give me just one
moment here
let me just see would you pay a monthly
fee for a browser we talked about that
last week i think yeah about this week
yeah
okay i i had an idea for a forward
um so i can i can read you an excerpt
from what may or may not end up in the
forward of the book okay okay okay all
right and i have not actually looked at
this since i jotted it down while i was
like
in a half conscious state on a plane so
i apologize in advance if it's not very
good uh forward idea this is just a
concept
if i was a total sellout i'd have
structured this as an inspirational
story about how anyone can do it if they
try hard enough and a collection of tips
to help you achieve what i have
but then if i wasn't interested in
making money i wouldn't bother writing a
book at all it's a pretty transparent
cash grab from my perspective that's
been the fine line that i've walked
throughout my career i'm not one of i'm
not one of the
uh oh okay i'm not the kind of person
who hides behind the i do this out of
passion
line
from day zero when i was asked by my
boss to start making youtube videos i've
been paid to do this as a job now to be
clear i was chosen for the assignment
because of my genuine passion for
technology and i was only ever good at
it because of that passion but i also
never would have started making youtube
videos without a bonus on my paycheck
so back to the book for a minute why did
i write this
for the money
but if i didn't care about creating it
it wouldn't be any good so did i sell
out i guess you'll have to read it to
find out
i like it i personally i would
appreciate that if that was at the
beginning of the book because i like
that type of
um
kind of blunt honesty i guess yeah cause
like you know
and i think it's it it makes me trust
what you're going to write in the rest
of the book more
and believe it the only way that i'd
write a book is if i could be that
honest
because otherwise what's the value of it
like if i wanted to make money i could
just go sell out to some you know some
of the i mean we reject brand deals all
the time because we look at them we go
look we can't we can't do that you know
we take the ones that we think makes
sense so if i just okay sorry sorry yeah
someone put a suggestion in twitch chat
uh nano remin um dot dot dot but first a
message from our sponsor if you got a
legit sponsor for the book
put a sponsor spot at the bottom of that
statement i think that would be
hilarious
i would love it okay i have to i
actually think that would be safe
sponsor
for the forward i should just have every
chapter be sponsored
can i sell out wait to find out but
first
savage jerky
oh no oh my goodness
brought to you by squarespace brought to
you by savage jerky
brought to you by manscape
oh no lordy so uh sorry who's this ah
so did you
wait where is it yeah uh ripster says
i'll take a copy uh joe says tell me
when the book's out i think i'll pick it
up
michael says i think i'd read that book
yeah pretty much
uh there is no book that is literally
all that i have written um
yeah
oh wait no wow i actually have a lot of
stuff in here
uh where did i come from talk about like
my families wow i've got a lot of stuff
in here that i really shouldn't talk
about
why do i have this in here
all right
huh wow yeah there's some super weird
stuff there's some super weird stuff in
me in in me yes in me uh in here um but
so everything in there is me so i guess
i guess it's both
pablo says i or no d-man says i don't
read but i'd probably buy your book
okay
you're doing it wrong
well you could have an audio book
straight up oh yeah i guess i guess i
could i guess i could no one would want
to listen to an audio book narrated by
me though you can narrate okay
okay oh yes i would absolutely do that
i'm 100 down
with commentary
yep sure or not whatever i'm fine being
a hundred percent true of the book
you know this is [__] you
[Laughter]
know um all right
let's see what else we got here um
mike asked why was floatplane broken i
was it was beyond our control there was
nothing we could do about it yeah yeah
it was an outside service that was
having something well something was done
to fix it but yeah there was some some
derpery on an outside service
um
tragic mega one
okay i don't know how to pronounce that
greetings from brantford ontario
uh i think you actually spelled branford
wrong
that's embarrassing
oh no okay apparently
apparently there is a brent ferd is
there also a branford ontario hold on a
second
i mean i if i'm going to accuse someone
of spelling their city wrong i should
probably at least find out if they were
right and i yeah no i i was totally
wrong there is a t in brantford in fact
all right good job person who
legitimately actually lives there for
spelling your city right and shame on me
for not knowing how to spell a city
across the country um we'll give you the
credit though for for checking after you
oh yeah got to check that stuff um are
there plans for ltt to review displays
most suitable to the playstation 5's
output once we know the final specs
the
basically any display that is good will
be good
and any display that is not so good will
be less good than the one that is good
and that's a free tech tip that's a free
tech tip free of charge actually it cost
them 10 canadian dollars but that's no
minor details uh oh we're doing we're in
a super chat yeah just get it get it get
uh that's a 10 tech tip get up get a b
series oled that's the way to go it's
the pro move right now they are
wonderful colin says just got to say
even if it's off topic oh the beard is
amazing your beard's amazing luke
yours i think yeah i'm pretty sure that
colin was talking to me just because my
beard's new not because it's more
amazing we actually established last
show that mine is less amazing than
luke's
i still actually think in terms of like
evenness and how it's grown in and all
that kind of stuff i would still vote
for yours mine is really messy no no
because i haven't cleaned it up i got
this gap here there's like a big gap on
this side it's like pretty brutal
actually i've got multiple here we go
yeah but i where's my own screen
you got this you got this i can't
get a little better now that's that's
not a gap though also this thing
okay that's true but that's like under
your neck
yeah it's better now i used to have a
gap right here okay you you have areas
where it's thinner but i've just got
like this like dime sized like gap and
it's not on the other side it's just the
one side oh no i used to have that on
this side oh really i i don't i don't
know if it's because i've been growing
it out and then
trimming it down long enough that that
area finally grew in or if i'm just like
older now i don't know which one
uh noro score for you says sending love
from japan why thank you
hopefully it's not like a super kinky
kind of love
or maybe that would be good i don't know
it doesn't matter um um
robert suggests just use google results
between date function in order to to
search for uh information about a given
apple product thank you for that thank
you for that that is an entirely
unnecessary solution to a problem we
never should have had um
casey says love all things lmg you guys
rock uh task one three three seven
whatever i bought the original sc the
day it launched and still use it the
battery is 1600 milliamp hours um once
replaced oh replaced it once and it
easily lasts me the whole day well maybe
you wouldn't have had to replace it if
they'd put a decent-sized battery in it
just saying um they also say not
everyone has five to six hours of screen
on time and that's fair but i still
think it's better to just build in a
little bit of room for battery
degradation since it's not easily user
replaceable
justin says just hoping you read this
out loud your content is always so
entertaining hoping to go to my first
ltx this year fingers crossed thanks we
will have an update for you on that very
soon um
and
uh hopefully
you are happy with it
uh what else we got here
okay oh man there's a lot of them today
okay no no more guys don't send any more
um the guy eating cake says great job
linus this show is so much better than
awesome hardware
paul and kyle have too many problems
with a crashing streaming pc please help
them i am the last person who should
help them with their streaming problems
the last and luke is the second last
you're muted luke
there we go sorry i was gonna say though
that your streams have been functioning
completely fine
since they've been on your own computer
at home yeah i know right there's
something cursed about
the the like the stream piece we did
have that audio issue today that did
seem a little bit ghosts that was only
uh
once we switched to discord oh that's
true actually we were fine once we when
we were set up for a different chat
service and i pulled the rug out onto
this last minute because uh teams does
this weird uh auto gain thing uh so i
wanted to avoid that you know what's
really funny
how strongly we have both been
conditioned to not talk about what video
chat service we're using
ever since the skype resolver issue that
resulted in us getting
dos attacked every time we talked about
skype yeah back in the day
oh that was horrible
yeah i i still get like
i don't know what how to even describe
it um
like anxiety even opening skype yeah
because i'm just like
this is bad if somebody sees my skype
username and then i can't use my
internet for the next day
yeah exactly
i can't believe how long that was broken
for it's just very long embarrassing
like utterly embarrassing
um yeah a hundred dollar super check
jason cintich says
to all at the lan show i need to say
thank you for moving the title bar to
the bottom of the screen i was just
messing with the guy that sent that last
week i ended up moving it back down i
did move it back down but you know what
i did my my silent protest you guys can
probably see this there's a tiny little
gap i left one pixel i left
one pixel at the bottom
you can mainly see when you're when your
hand passes my it's my silent protest
all right
yeah all right
so that's it ladies and gentlemen um
thank you again for tuning in to the wan
show we will see you again next week
saying that time same bad channel
uh
was there anything you wanted to talk
about luke are we done
uh i don't think so flow planes cool and
awesome and there's hopefully some new
creators that are going to be joining
soon we're in talks with some peeps
there's been some suggestions from you
guys as well i really appreciate that
um you can like tweet at me or email
support if you have any creators that
you think would be a good fit and we can
try to reach out crisis yeah okay so i
didn't see this
yeah okay i think we do kind of have to
talk about that don't we oh lordy well
that's not that's nice
no notes for this at all but
freaking crisis uh yeah hold on no no no
no crisis what is it remastered is that
what they're calling it crisis
remastered okay yep so basically there's
no information there's just like this
yeah there's just like this video
okay so hold on hold on a second hold on
a second i just got i haven't seen the
video no it's it's it's utterly useless
okay just one second i'll bring in a
window capture
uh yeah sure that window's good okay
here we go let's play the videos over on
forbes
there you go so there's a bunch of
comments it'd be awesome to see a remake
of crisis
[Music]
and then there's this
okay
and that was it
wow that's really short yeah yeah so
basically
the the biggest like
tease ever and they should be ashamed
for behaving in that manner
that's all i have to say about that
yeah
it's
i don't know
what don't you know
you don't know if they're actually
making a game because that could just as
easily be nonsense
basically they do say it's coming to pc
playstation for xbox one
and to the switch of course i could say
i could say anything
oh coming to the switch
wait what what's it going to run at like
300 p that's actually concerning yeah oh
man
i kind of wish it wasn't like remastered
pre-rendered cut scenes like i don't
even think
like i don't think you get to watch you
get to watch the crisis movie if you buy
it on switch price's movie it's just
it's just it just automatically finds
the the twitch stream with the highest
viewer count yeah and just
just connects you to it
there good luck you can watch this all
right all right that was it guys thanks
for watching all right you know why
don't we uh why don't we stream bomb uh
whatever her name is that that lady
planty time yeah might as well
all right here we go go go say hi to
emma ladies and gentlemen she's she's a
little bit more of a weathered streamer
now a weathered streamer i'm gonna tell
her you said that weathered i think you
mean seasoned
see there we go
she's weathered guys let her know she's
weathered please all right
just be like luke says you're looking
weathered lady i did not say looking
well you said she well whether it is a
look i mean that's a look that's not
like a sound you don't sound weathered
but i mean in her ability is that good
ability is weathered your ability is
weathered
but she's like weathered storm you know
cause she looks like she was in a storm
i didn't say look none of this has been
about appearance she went from three
viewers to 3 300. yeah and that was very
like surprising chat says you're not
doing any better and basically you're
not getting any sex tonight
[Laughter]
but keep on digging it's great we like
it
what's your
i did not say you were weathered yes he
did yes he is in fact
i said you might do better because yeah
when i met like wow experience this is
kind of hard to watch like it's kind of
pathetic luke you got to stand up for
yourself
if you're gonna say something stand
behind it okay
okay
be a man
and thanks for watching